For this part of the assignment, you will implement distance vector routing to build, and update, 
your router’s route table. Specifically, you will implement a simplified version of the Routing 
Information Protocol v2 (RIPv2). Details on the RIPv2 protocol are available from RFC2453 and 
Network Sorcery's RFC Sourcebook. If you’re not sure how distance vector routing works, you should 
read Section 3.3.2 of the textbook or the lecture slides on distance vector routing.

Starting RIP
Your router should only run RIP when a static route table is not provided (via the -r argument when 
running VirtualNetwork.jar). You should update Main.java and/or Router.java to appropriately start RIP.

When your router starts, you should add entries to the route table for the subnets that are directly 
reachable via the router’s interfaces. This subnets can be determined based on the IP address and netmask 
associated with each of the router’s interfaces. These entries should have no gateway.

RIP Packets
The RIPv2 and RIPv2Entry classes in the net.floodlightcontroller.packet package define the format for RIPv2 
packets. All RIPv2 packets should be encapsulated in UDP packets whose source and destination ports are 520 
(defined as a constant RIP_PORT in the UDP class). When sending RIP requests and unsolicited RIP responses, 
the destination IP address should be the multicast IP address reserved for RIP (224.0.0.9) and the destination 
Ethernet address should be the broadcast MAC address (FF:FF:FF:FF:FF:FF). When sending a RIP response for a 
specific RIP request, the destination IP address and destination Ethernet address should be the IP address and 
MAC address of the router interface that sent the request.

RIP Operation
Your router should send a RIP request out all of the router’s interfaces when RIP is initialized. Your router 
should send an unsolicited RIP response out all of the router’s interfaces every 10 seconds thereafter.

You should update the handlePacket(…) method in the Router class to check if an arriving IP packet has a 
destination 224.0.0.9, a protocol type of UDP, and a UDP destination port of 520. Packets that match this 
criteria are RIP requests or responses. Your router should update its route table based on these packets, 
and send any necessary RIP response packets.

Your router should time out route table entries for which an update has not been received for more than 
30 seconds. You should never remove route entries for the subnets that are directly reachable via the 
router’s interfaces.

Your implementation does not need to be a complete standards-compliant implementation of RIPv2. You should 
implement basic distance vector routing as discussed in the textbook and in-class, using RIPv2 packets as the 
format for messages exchanged between routers.
